Proofreading-OV-Runtime (#11658)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: docs/OV_Runtime_UG/deployment/deployment_intro.md

> # Deploy with OpenVINO™ {#openvino_deployment_guide}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Deploying Your Applications with OpenVINO™ {#openvino_deployment_guide}
```

@endsphinxdirective

> Once the [OpenVINO application development](../integrate_with_your_application.md) has been finished, application developers usually need to deploy their applications to end users. There are several ways how to achieve that:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the [OpenVINO™ application development](../integrate_with_your_application.md) has been finished, application developers usually need to deploy their applications to end users. There are several ways how to achieve that:
```

> Once the [OpenVINO™ application development](../integrate_with_your_application.md) has been finished, application developers usually need to deploy their applications to end users. There are several ways how to achieve that:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the [OpenVINO™ application development](../integrate_with_your_application.md) has been finished, application developers usually need to deploy their applications to end users. There are several ways to achieve that:
```

> - Set a dependency on existing prebuilt packages (so called "centralized distribution"):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Set a dependency on the existing prebuilt packages (so called "centralized distribution"):
```

>     - using Debian / RPM packages - a recommended way for distributions of Linux operating system;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - using Debian / RPM packages - a recommended way for distributions of Linux operating systems;
```

>     - using pip package manager on PyPi - a default approach for Python-based applications;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - using PIP package manager on PyPI - the default approach for Python-based applications;
```

>     - using Docker images. If the application should be deployed as a Docker image, use a pre-built OpenVINO™ runtime Docker image as a base image in the Dockerfile for the application container image. For more information about OpenVINO Docker images, refer to the installation guides for [Linux](../../install_guides/installing-openvino-docker-linux.md) and [Windows](../../install_guides/installing-openvino-docker-windows.md). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - using Docker images - if the application should be deployed as a Docker image, use a pre-built OpenVINO™ runtime Docker image as a base image in the Dockerfile for the application container image. For more information about OpenVINO Docker images, refer to the installation guides for [Linux](../../install_guides/installing-openvino-docker-linux.md) and [Windows](../../install_guides/installing-openvino-docker-windows.md). 
```

>     - using Docker images - if the application should be deployed as a Docker image, use a pre-built OpenVINO™ runtime Docker image as a base image in the Dockerfile for the application container image. For more information about OpenVINO Docker images, refer to the installation guides for [Linux](../../install_guides/installing-openvino-docker-linux.md) and [Windows](../../install_guides/installing-openvino-docker-windows.md). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - using Docker images - if the application should be deployed as a Docker image, use a pre-built OpenVINO™ Runtime Docker image as a base image in the Dockerfile for the application container image. For more information about OpenVINO Docker images, refer to the [Linux installation guide](../../install_guides/installing-openvino-docker-linux-header.md) and [Windows installation guide](../../install_guides/installing-openvino-docker-windows-header.md). 
```

> Furthermore, to customize OpenVINO Docker image, use [Docker CI Framework](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/docker_ci) to generate a Dockerfile and built it. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore, to customize your OpenVINO Docker image, use the [Docker CI Framework](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/docker_ci) to generate a Dockerfile and built the image. 
```

> - Grab a necessary functionality of OpenVINO together with your application (so-called "local distribution"):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Grab a necessary functionality of OpenVINO together with your application, also called "local distribution":
```

>     - using [OpenVINO Deployment manager](deployment-manager-tool.md) - providing a convenient way create a distribution package;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - using [OpenVINO Deployment Manager](deployment-manager-tool.md) - providing a convenient way for creating a distribution package;
```

>     - using advanced [Local distribution](local-distribution.md) approach;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - using the advanced [Local Distribution](local-distribution.md) approach;
```

>     - using [static version of OpenVINO Runtime linked into the final app](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino/wiki/StaticLibraries).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - using [a static version of OpenVINO Runtime linked to the final app](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino/wiki/StaticLibraries).
```

> The table below shows which distribution type can be used, depending on a target operating system:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The table below shows which distribution type can be used for what target operating system:
```

| Distribution type | Operating systems |
|------- ---------- | ----------------- |
| Debian packages | Ubuntu 18.04 long-term support (LTS), 64-bit; Ubuntu 20.04 long-term support (LTS), 64-bit |
| RMP packages | Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8, 64-bit |
| Docker images | Ubuntu 18.04 long-term support (LTS), 64-bit; Ubuntu 20.04 long-term support (LTS), 64-bit; Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8, 64-bit; Windows Server Core base LTSC 2019, 64-bit; Windows 10, version 20H2, 64-bit |
| PyPi (pip package manager) | See [https://pypi.org/project/openvino/](https://pypi.org/project/openvino/) |
| [OpenVINO Deployment Manager](deployment-manager-tool.md) | All operating systems |

> | [Local distribution](local-distribution.md) | All operating systems |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Local Distribution](local-distribution.md) | All operating systems |
```

> | [Build OpenVINO statically and link into the final app](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino/wiki/StaticLibraries) | All operating systems |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Build OpenVINO statically and link to the final app](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino/wiki/StaticLibraries) | All operating systems |
```

> Depending on the distribution type, the granularity of OpenVINO packages may vary. For example, PyPi distribution of OpenVINO has a [single 'openvino' package](https://pypi.org/project/openvino/) that contains all the runtime libraries and plugins, while a [Local distribution](local-distribution.md) is a more configurable type - providing higher granularity. Below are important details of the set of libraries included in the OpenVINO Runtime package:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Granularity of Major Distribution Types

The granularity of OpenVINO packages may vary for different distribution types. For example, the PyPI distribution of OpenVINO has a [single 'openvino' package](https://pypi.org/project/openvino/) that contains all the runtime libraries and plugins, while a [Local Distribution](local-distribution.md) is a more configurable type  providing higher granularity. Below are important details of the set of libraries included in the OpenVINO Runtime package:
```

> Depending on the distribution type, the granularity of OpenVINO packages may vary. For example, PyPi distribution of OpenVINO has a [single 'openvino' package](https://pypi.org/project/openvino/) that contains all the runtime libraries and plugins, while a [Local distribution](local-distribution.md) is a more configurable type, thus providing higher granularity. Below are important details of the set of libraries included in the OpenVINO Runtime package:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Depending on the distribution type, the granularity of OpenVINO packages may vary. For example, PyPi distribution of OpenVINO has a [single 'openvino' package](https://pypi.org/project/openvino/) that contains all the runtime libraries and plugins, while a [Local distribution](local-distribution.md) is a more configurable type - providing higher granularity. Below are important details of the set of libraries included in the OpenVINO Runtime package:
```

![deployment_simplified]

> - The main library `openvino` is used by users' C++ applications to link against with. The library provides all OpenVINO Runtime public APIs: OpenVINO API 2.0, both Inference Engine and nGraph APIs (being combined as of API 2.0). For C language applications `openvino_c` is additionally required for distribution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The main library `openvino` is used by users' C++ applications to link against with. The library provides all OpenVINO Runtime public APIs, including both API 2.0 and the previous Inference Engine and nGraph APIs. For C language applications, `openvino_c` is additionally required for distribution.
```

> - The "optional" plugin libraries like `openvino_intel_cpu_plugin` (matching `openvino_.+_plugin` pattern) are used to provide inference capabilities on specific devices or additional capabilities like [Hetero execution](../hetero_execution.md) or [Multi-Device execution](../multi_device.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The "optional" plugin libraries like `openvino_intel_cpu_plugin` (matching the `openvino_.+_plugin` pattern) are used to provide inference capabilities on specific devices or additional capabilities like [Hetero Execution](../hetero_execution.md) and [Multi-Device Execution](../multi_device.md).
```

- The "optional" plugin libraries like `openvino_ir_frontend` (matching `openvino_.+_frontend`) are used to provide capabilities to read models of different file formats like OpenVINO IR, ONNX or PaddlePaddle.

> The "optional" means that if the application does not use the capability enabled by the plugin, the plugin library or a package with the plugin is not needed in the final distribution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here the term "optional" means that if the application does not use the capability enabled by the plugin, the plugin library or a package with the plugin is not needed in the final distribution.
```

The information above covers granularity aspects of most distribution types. More detailed information is required and provided in the [Local Distribution](local-distribution.md).

> > **NOTE**: Depending on target OpenVINO devices, provide proper configuration of deployed machines, using the [Configurations for GPU](../../install_guides/configurations-for-intel-gpu.md), the [Configurations for GNA](../../install_guides/configurations-for-intel-gna.md), the [Configurations for NCS2](../../install_guides/configurations-for-ncs2.md) or the [Configurations for VPU](../../install_guides/configurations-for-ivad-vpu.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **NOTE**: Depending on your target OpenVINO devices, the following configurations might be needed for deployed machines: [Configurations for GPU](../../install_guides/configurations-for-intel-gpu.md), [Configurations for GNA](../../install_guides/configurations-for-intel-gna.md), [Configurations for NCS2](../../install_guides/configurations-for-ncs2.md), [Configurations for VPU](../../install_guides/configurations-for-ivad-vpu.md).
```

@endsphinxdirective

Once the [OpenVINO™ application development](../integrate_with_your_application.md) has been finished, application developers usually need to deploy their applications to end users. There are several ways to achieve that:

- Set a dependency on the existing prebuilt packages, also called "centralized distribution":
    - using Debian / RPM packages - a recommended way for Linux operating systems;
    - using PIP package manager on PyPI - the default approach for Python-based applications;

>     - using Docker images - if the application should be deployed as a Docker image, use a pre-built OpenVINO™ Runtime Docker image as a base image in the Dockerfile for the application container image. For more information about OpenVINO Docker images, refer to the installation guides [for Linux from Docker](../../install_guides/installing-openvino-docker-linux.md) and [for Windows from Docker](../../install_guides/installing-openvino-docker-windows.md). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - using Docker images - if the application should be deployed as a Docker image, use a pre-built OpenVINO™ Runtime Docker image as a base image in the Dockerfile for the application container image. For more information about OpenVINO Docker images, refer to [Installing OpenVINO on Linux from Docker](../../install_guides/installing-openvino-docker-linux.md) and [Installing OpenVINO on Windows from Docker](../../install_guides/installing-openvino-docker-windows.md). 
```
Sorry for this back and forth change. I think the best solution might be spelling out the full book name.

Furthermore, to customize your OpenVINO Docker image, use the [Docker CI Framework](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/docker_ci) to generate a Dockerfile and built the image. 
- Grab a necessary functionality of OpenVINO together with your application, also called "local distribution":
    - using [OpenVINO Deployment Manager](deployment-manager-tool.md) - providing a convenient way for creating a distribution package;

>     - using the advanced [Local Distribution](local-distribution.md) approach;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - using the advanced [local distribution](local-distribution.md) approach;
```

    - using [a static version of OpenVINO Runtime linked to the final app](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino/wiki/StaticLibraries).

The table below shows which distribution type can be used for what target operating system:

| Distribution type | Operating systems |
|------- ---------- | ----------------- |
| Debian packages | Ubuntu 18.04 long-term support (LTS), 64-bit; Ubuntu 20.04 long-term support (LTS), 64-bit |
| RMP packages | Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8, 64-bit |
| Docker images | Ubuntu 18.04 long-term support (LTS), 64-bit; Ubuntu 20.04 long-term support (LTS), 64-bit; Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8, 64-bit; Windows Server Core base LTSC 2019, 64-bit; Windows 10, version 20H2, 64-bit |

> | PyPi (pip package manager) | See [https://pypi.org/project/openvino/](https://pypi.org/project/openvino/) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PyPI (PIP package manager) | See [https://pypi.org/project/openvino/](https://pypi.org/project/openvino/) |
```

| [OpenVINO Deployment Manager](deployment-manager-tool.md) | All operating systems |

> | [Local Distribution](local-distribution.md) | All operating systems |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Local distribution](local-distribution.md) | All operating systems |
```

| [Build OpenVINO statically and link to the final app](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino/wiki/StaticLibraries) | All operating systems |

## Granularity of Major Distribution Types

> The granularity of OpenVINO packages may vary for different distribution types. For example, the PyPI distribution of OpenVINO has a [single 'openvino' package](https://pypi.org/project/openvino/) that contains all the runtime libraries and plugins, while a [Local Distribution](local-distribution.md) is a more configurable type providing higher granularity. Below are important details of the set of libraries included in the OpenVINO Runtime package:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The granularity of OpenVINO packages may vary for different distribution types. For example, the PyPI distribution of OpenVINO has a [single 'openvino' package](https://pypi.org/project/openvino/) that contains all the runtime libraries and plugins, while a [local distribution](local-distribution.md) is a more configurable type providing higher granularity. Below are important details of the set of libraries included in the OpenVINO Runtime package:
```

![deployment_simplified]

- The main library `openvino` is used by users' C++ applications to link against with. The library provides all OpenVINO Runtime public APIs, including both API 2.0 and the previous Inference Engine and nGraph APIs. For C language applications, `openvino_c` is additionally required for distribution.
- The "optional" plugin libraries like `openvino_intel_cpu_plugin` (matching the `openvino_.+_plugin` pattern) are used to provide inference capabilities on specific devices or additional capabilities like [Hetero Execution](../hetero_execution.md) and [Multi-Device Execution](../multi_device.md).
- The "optional" plugin libraries like `openvino_ir_frontend` (matching `openvino_.+_frontend`) are used to provide capabilities to read models of different file formats such as OpenVINO IR, ONNX, and PaddlePaddle.

Here the term "optional" means that if the application does not use the capability enabled by the plugin, the plugin library or a package with the plugin is not needed in the final distribution.

> Building local distribution will require more detailed information, and you will find it in the dedicated [Local Distribution](local-distribution.md) article.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Building a local distribution will require more detailed information, and you will find it in the dedicated [Information for Building a Local Distribution](local-distribution.md) article.
```
